A fun-filled, slot machine style game;

perfect for Middle to High School and ESL learners.

Memorizing new words is Grueling.

Learning a few Root Words is Easy.

Each Root gives access to many words.

Use the fun-filled slot machine to grow words from the Root.

60% of English words derived from Greek and Latin.

Seeing the same Root 15-20 times, with various affixes, helps learners build knowledge around that Root. Keep adding prefixes and suffixes and the Learner can grow their vocabulary Exponentially. This game uses the smallest meaningful part of a word to build hundreds of vocabulary words. Linguists call this smallest part, a “morpheme,” and it includes prefixes, roots and suffixes. Hey look, you’ve already learned a new vocabulary word! Understanding morphemes will allow you to expand your vocabulary and impress your friends at parties.
The changing languages started long ago. P-I-E is an acronym for Proto-Indo-European. Proto means unattested or hypothetical. Indo means from the Indian sub-continent and European means from the European continent.
… the original homeland of the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have been in the Pontic–Caspian steppe of eastern Europe. As speakers of Proto-Indo-European became isolated from each other through the Indo-European migrations, the regional dialects … diverged, each dialect underwent shifts in pronunciation, morphology, and vocabulary. Further linguistic divergence led to the evolution of their current descendants, the modern Indo-European languages.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proto-Indo-European_language
The Greeks borrowed from and built on the Pontic-Caspian language. The Romans built on the Greek language; the French, Italians and Spanish built on the Roman language (Latin). The Anglos incorporated Latin when they were occupied during the Roman Empire, building on the Latin, Anglo and Saxon (German) languages. Over 60 percent of all English words have Greek or Latin roots. In the vocabulary of the sciences and technology, the figure rises to over 90 percent. About 10 percent of the Latin vocabulary has found its way directly into English without an intermediary language.
https://www.dictionary.com/e/word-origins
It's a fun fact, English is an ever-changing language and it started long, long ago. Travelers and migrants changed words, Shakespeare made up words. Will you be the next Bard?
